"Which type of income is generally NOT reported on an Armed Forces member's Form W-2?A. Combat pay.B. Overseas extension bonus.C. Enlistment and reenlistment bonuses.D. VA disability benefits","D:VA disability compensation for disabilities paid either to veterans or their families are not reported on Form W-2 and are not taxable. Combat pay, overseas extension bonus, and enlistment or reenlistment bonuses are all included on the W-2 for a member of the Armed Forces. For more on this topic, see the page about Special Tax Considerations for Veterans on the IRS website."
"Todd is an ordained minister that wants to request an exemption from Social Security and Medicare Taxes. How is this done?A. Todd must make a formal vow of poverty.B. Todd must file a Form 8275 with each tax return and disclose his position.C. Todd cannot get an exemption from paying these taxes, even if he is a minister.D. Todd must file Form 4029.","D:Todd must file Form 4029, Application for Exemption From Social Security and Medicare Taxes and Waiver of Benefits. To be exempt from Social Security and Medicare taxes, a minister, priest, or other clergy, must obtain a Social Security number and file Form 4029, Application for Exemption from Social Security and Medicare Taxes and Waiver of Benefits. The exemption from Social Security and Medicare taxes is applicable for self‐employment income and wages."
"Renart is an ordained minister in the Blessed Church of Portland. He owns his own home and his monthly house payment is $1,900. His monthly utilities are an additional $450. Fair rental value in his neighborhood is $2,000. He receives a housing allowance from his church in the amount of $1,950 per month. How much of his housing allowance is subject to income tax?A. $1,900B. $2,000C. $100D. $0","D:Ministers may exclude from gross income the rental value of a home or a rental allowance to the extent the allowance is used to provide a home, even if deductions are taken for home expenses paid with the allowance. Since the allowance did not exceed his costs, it is excludable from income tax (but not excludable from self-employment tax). For more information about the special rules that apply to clergy, see IRS Publication 517, Social Security and Other Information for Members of the Clergy and Religious Workers."
"Barnard is in the US armed services, fighting in a combat zone. He forgot to file an extension. Is he allowed an automatic extension of time to file?A. Yes, he is allowed an automatic extension of 180 days from the normal filing deadline.B. Yes, he is allowed an automatic extension from the normal filing deadline, but only until June 15.C. No, he must file an extension request, just like every other taxpayer. However, the extension request will be given special consideration because he is in a combat zone.D. Yes, he is allowed an automatic extension of 180 days after the last day he is in a combat zone.","D:A US taxpayer serving in a combat zone is granted an automatic extension, Barnard is given extra time to file his tax return, pay his taxes, and file a claim for refund. The 180-day extension also applies to other service members performing active duty services in support of combat zone operations. In addition, a taxpayer serving in a combat zone qualifies for relief from IRS compliance actions, such as audits or collections, until 180 days after he has left the zone. See the IRS detail page on the Extension of Deadlines for Combat Zone Service."
"Which income is not subject to federal income tax?A. Combat pay.B. Interest income.C. Wage income.D. Social Security Income.","A:Combat pay is excluded from federal income tax, for every month that a military servicemember is present in a combat zone (however, it is still subject to Social Security tax and Medicare tax). Combat pay must still be reported on the taxpayer's return, but it is not taxable."
"Perry is an ordained minister of the Holy Revival Church in Florida. In the current year, he receives the following:W-2 salary from the church: $50,000Housing allowance for rent and utilities: $20,000Fees for performing weddings and funerals: $5,000How are these amounts taxed under the special rules for members of the clergy?A. Because he is an ordained minister, Perry's salary and housing allowance are not subject to income tax. However, he must pay self-employment tax on both his salary and the housing allowance.B. Perry must claim the salary, housing allowance, and fees as income on his tax return. The salary and fees are subject to income tax and self-employment tax. However, the housing allowance is subject to income tax only.C. Perry has to pay both income tax and self-employment tax on his salary and the fees for performing weddings and funerals. He has to pay self-employment tax for the housing allowance, but it is not subject to income tax.D. Because his church is tax-exempt, Perry does not have to report any wages received from the church. However, the fees for performing weddings and funerals are taxable income.","C:All the income received by Perry is taxable income. However, only the wages and fees are subject to both income tax and self-employment tax. The housing allowance is exempt from income tax, but subject to self-employment tax. The exclusion for housing is limited to the lesser of:Fair market rental value (including utilities), or The actual cost to provide the home.For more information about the special rules that apply to clergy, see IRS Publication 517, Social Security and Other Information for Members of the Clergy and Religious Workers."
"Gerald is an ordained minister for the Presbyterian Church. He owns his own home. In addition, he receives a monthly housing allowance from his church that isn’t subject to income tax. He pays regular mortgage interest and property taxes on the home. Which of the following is true regarding the deductibility of these expenses?A. Gerald can still deduct his real estate taxes and home mortgage interest, but the housing allowance becomes taxable by the amount of deductible expenses that are reportable on Schedule A.B. Gerald can still deduct his real estate taxes and home mortgage interest. The minister does not have to reduce their deductions by the nontaxable amount of the housing allowance.C. Gerald can still deduct his real estate taxes and home mortgage interest. However, he must reduce his allowable deductions by the nontaxable amount of the housing allowance.D. The mortgage interest and property taxes are not deductible by Gerald, because he receives a nontaxable housing allowance.","B:If a minister receives a housing allowance that isn’t taxable, the minister can still deduct their real estate taxes and home mortgage interest. The minister does not have to reduce their deductions by the nontaxable amount of the housing allowance. For more information about the special rules that apply to clergy, see Publication 517, Social Security and Other Information for Members of the Clergy and Religious Workers."
"Combat pay earned by military servicemembers is generally nontaxable. Which type of pay is never classified as 'combat pay'?A. Active duty pay earned in any month the taxpayer served in a combat zone.B. Pay for accrued leave earned in any month the taxpayer served in a combat zone.C. Retirement pay of armed forces personnel.D. Imminent danger pay.","C:Retirement pay and pensions of armed forces personnel are not considered combat pay, they are merely treated as retirement income. Nontaxable combat pay will usually be shown on Form W-2, Box 12 with code Q. Examples of nontaxable military pay include; combat pay, the Basic Allowance for Housing (BAH), and the Basic Allowance for Subsistence (BAS). An example of a Form W-2 from a military servicemember with nontaxable combat pay is shown below:"
"On February 1, 2023, Declan , a commissioned officer, served five months in the combat zone of Afghanistan. In June he was injured and transferred to an Armed Forces medical site outside the combat zone and entitled him to hostile fire/imminent danger pay. He stayed at the medical site until November, when he finally received orders to return home. He actually returns home on November 25, 2023. He received his last two combat zone payments in December. Which months of combat pay will be excluded from Declan's gross income?A. February through NovemberB. February through JuneC. February through SeptemberD. February through December","A:From February through November, Declan was considered to be serving in a combat zone. Any part of a month spent in a combat zone will exclude the entire month's pay. To see a handy cheatsheet of the different types of military pay and how they are treated for tax purposes, see this IRS Chart on Armed Forces Income."
"Reverend Gerald Jones is a full-time minister for Kensington Church, a qualified religious organization. The church allows Gerald to use a home that has an annual fair rental value of $24,000. The church also pays him an annual salary of $67,000, of which $7,500 is designated for utility costs. Gerald's actual utility costs during the year were $7,000, for which he has receipts. What is Gerald's income for income tax purposes? And what is his income for self-employment tax purposes?A. For income tax purposes, Gerald will report $60,000. His income for SE tax purposes, is $74,000.B. For income tax purposes, Gerald will report $66,500. His income for SE tax purposes, is $84,000.C. For income tax purposes, Gerald will report $60,000. His income for SE tax purposes, is $91,000.D. For income tax purposes, Gerald will report $67,000. His income for SE tax purposes, is $91,500.","C:For income tax purposes, Reverend Gerald Jones excludes $31,000 from gross income ($24,000 fair rental value of the parsonage plus $7,000 from the allowance for utility costs). Therefore, for income tax purposes, Gerald will report $60,000 ($59,500 salary plus $500 of his unused utility allowance). His income for SE tax purposes, is $91,000 ($67,000 salary + $24,000 fair rental value of the parsonage). This example is taken directly from Publication 517, Social Security and Other Information for Members of the Clergy and Religious Workers."
"Franklin is an ordained minister with the United Episcopal Church, and he receives various types of income from the church. Which of the following types of income would be subject to self-employment tax for Franklin?A. Reimbursements for mileage made under an accountable plan.B. Group plan medical insurance benefits.C. Commuter transit passes provided by the minister's employer.D. Minister's housing allowance.","D:Ministers or other members of a religious order may have net earnings from self-employment. The rental value of a home or a housing allowance provided to a minister as part of the minister's pay generally is not subject to income tax but is included in net earnings from self-employment. For more information, refer to Publication 517, Social Security and Other Information for Members of the Clergy and Religious Workers."
"Father Lucian is a Catholic priest who receives a salary plus a housing allowance for rent and utilities. He has not taken a vow of poverty. Which of the following statements is correct?A. He must report his entire salary and housing allowance on his tax return. The salary is subject to income tax and self-employment tax, but his housing allowance is subject to income tax only.B. He must pay both income tax and self-employment tax on his salary, but only self-employment tax for the housing allowance. The housing allowance is not subject to income tax.C. He must pay self-employment tax on both his salary and the housing allowance. Neither is subject to income tax.D. He does not have to report any income received from the church because the Catholic Church is a tax-exempt organization.","B:Father Lucian must pay both income tax and self-employment tax on his salary, but only self-employment tax for the housing allowance. The housing allowance is not subject to income tax. A clergy member’s salary is reported on Form W-2 and is taxable. Offerings and fees received for performing marriages, baptisms, and funerals must also be reported as self-employment income on Schedule C. For purposes of determining self-employment tax for a clergy member, salary, other fees, and housing allowances are included. However, housing allowances are not subject to income tax.For more information about the special rules that apply to clergy, see Publication 517, Social Security and Other Information for Members of the Clergy and Religious Workers."
"Which of the following taxpayers may contribute to a Roth IRA in 2023?A. Bobby, who is 32 and has $52,000 in passive rental income during the tax year.B. Harold, who is 30 and has $34,000 in nontaxable combat pay.C. Randall, who is 75 and has $19,000 in Social Security income for the year.D. Pauline, who is 42 and has $15,000 in capital gains for the year, and $3,000 in interest income.","B:Only Harold is allowed to contribute because he has qualifying compensation for the year. Members of the military are allowed to count tax-free combat pay when figuring how much they can contribute to a Roth or traditional IRA. See IRS Topic No. 451, Individual Retirement Arrangements (IRAs) for more information."
"Combat pay is exempt from income taxes, but is subject to:A. Capital gains taxes.B. Payroll taxes.C. Net investment income tax.D. Excise taxes.","B:Combat pay is generally not subject to federal income tax. However, the recipient must still pay Social Security and Medicare taxes (payroll taxes) on the combat pay. To learn more about this topic, see the IRS page for Tax Exclusions for Combat Pay."
"Which of the following taxpayers is allowed to take a deduction for moving expenses in 2023?A. Franklin, an ordained priest, who is moving to a diocese in a different state.B. Paula, a police officer who is being transferred to a different precinct over 100 miles away.C. Darnell, a member of the Armed Forces moving under orders to a permanent change of station.D. Brandy, a taxpayer who is a US citizen moving permanently overseas.","C:Darnell may deduct his moving expenses, because he is a member of the Armed Forces moving under orders to a permanent change of station. Under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, most taxpayers cannot claim a deduction for moving expenses, but an exception exists for Armed Services personnel. For more information, see IRS Tax Topic No. 455 Moving Expenses for Members of the Armed Forces."
"For members of the Armed Forces, which of the following items is not taxable income?A. Reenlistment bonuses.B. Severance pay.C. Basic Allowance for Housing (BAH).D. Military wages.","C:Basic Allowance for Housing (BAH) is not considered taxable income for members of the Armed Forces. It does not need to be included in gross income on the taxpayer’s Form 1040."
"Under what of the following conditions will a tuition reduction, grant, or scholarship be taxable to a student?A. When the grant or scholarship is provided to out-of-state students who are persuing graduate degree programs.B. Any portion of a grant or scholarship that is compensation for services will be taxable as wages to the student.C. When it is provided to graduate students.D. Grants or scholarships are never taxable, regardless of the scenario.","Incorrect Answer Explanation for D:A common arrangement is when colleges offer tuition reduction and/or free on-campus housing in lieu of wages to student teachers. However, any portion of a grant or scholarship that is compensation for services is taxable as wages. For example, if a student must serve as a part-time teaching assistant as a condition of their scholarship or grant, then that is payment for work, and would be taxable as wages to the student.B:A common arrangement is when colleges offer tuition reduction and/or free on-campus housing in lieu of wages to student teachers. However, any portion of a grant or scholarship that is compensation for services is taxable as wages. For example, if a student must serve as a part-time teaching assistant as a condition of their scholarship or grant, then that is payment for work, and would be taxable as wages to the student.Explanation for A:A common arrangement is when colleges offer tuition reduction and/or free on-campus housing in lieu of wages to student teachers. However, any portion of a grant or scholarship that is compensation for services is taxable as wages. For example, if a student must serve as a part-time teaching assistant as a condition of their scholarship or grant, then that is payment for work, and would be taxable as wages to the student.Explanation for C:A common arrangement is when colleges offer tuition reduction and/or free on-campus housing in lieu of wages to student teachers. However, any portion of a grant or scholarship that is compensation for services is taxable as wages. For example, if a student must serve as a part-time teaching assistant as a condition of their scholarship or grant, then that is payment for work, and would be taxable as wages to the student."
"Torin is a college student whose tuition and fees were $5,400 for the year. During the year, he received the following income and other payments:Scholarship: $4,300.Support from his parents: $2,500.Loan from his college's financial aid office: $4,700.Interest income: $1,000.Cash prize from a lotto ticket: $2,000.Wage income from an internship: $4,950.What is his gross income for the year?A. $5,950B. $12,250C. $12,600D. $7,950","D:The answer is calculated as follows:$1,000 interest income+$2,000 cash prize from a lotto ticket+ $4,950 wage income from an internship= $7,950 of gross income.The scholarship is not taxable because Torin's tuition costs exceed the scholarship amounts. The support from his parents is not taxable, because it is a gift. The loan from financial aid is not income because it must be repaid."
"Frannie is a waitress at a popular restaurant. One of her customers gives her a non-cash tip in the form of concert tickets, which have a face value of $80. She happily accepts the tickets because she wants to go to the concert. How should Frannie treat this non-cash tip?A. The non-cash tip is not taxable to Frannie, and does not need to be reported on her tax return.B. The non-cash tip is taxable to Frannie, and must be reported to her employer and added to her Form W-2 as wages.C. The non-cash tip is taxable to Frannie, and must be reported on her tax return. She does not have to report the non-cash tip to her employer.D. The non-cash tip is taxable to her employer, but not to Frannie, since it is not made with cash.","Incorrect Answer Explanation for B:The non-cash tip is taxable to Frannie and must be reported on her tax return. She does not have to report it to her employer.Non-cash tips (for example, concert tickets, sports tickets, or other items) do not have to be reported to the employer, but they must be reported and included in the employee's gross income at their fair market value.C:The non-cash tip is taxable to Frannie and must be reported on her tax return. She does not have to report it to her employer.Non-cash tips (for example, concert tickets, sports tickets, or other items) do not have to be reported to the employer, but they must be reported and included in the employee's gross income at their fair market value.Explanation for A:The non-cash tip is taxable to Frannie and must be reported on her tax return. She does not have to report it to her employer.Non-cash tips (for example, concert tickets, sports tickets, or other items) do not have to be reported to the employer, but they must be reported and included in the employee’s gross income at their fair market value.Explanation for D:The non-cash tip is taxable to Frannie and must be reported on her tax return. She does not have to report it to her employer.Non-cash tips (for example, concert tickets, sports tickets, or other items) do not have to be reported to the employer, but they must be reported and included in the employee’s gross income at their fair market value."
"A customer at a casino left a $10 poker chip as a tip for Maurice, who is a hotel employee. He did not have any other tip income for the month. What is Maurice’s reporting requirement for this tip?A. Maurice must report the tip income on his return at its fair market value, which would be $10.B. The poker chip is not legal tender, and is therefore not taxable.
C. The tip is a gift, and therefore not taxable income.D. Maurice should report this tip income to his employer, and it will be taxed as wages on his Form W-2.","A:Although the tip was not paid in cash, it is still taxable at its fair market value, which would be $10. The tip is not reportable to Maurice’s employer, since he earned less than $20 of tip income during the month. He should report the tip income on his return. It is subject to regular income tax, but it is exempt from Social Security and Medicare taxes."
"An employee who receives _______ or more per month in cash tips from one job must report the tip income to his employer.A. $20B. $10C. $100D. All tip income must be reported to the employer, no matter how small.","A:An individual who receives $20 or more per month of cash tips from one job must report the tip income to his employer. Tips are taxable as follows:Tips paid in cash of $20 or more per month are taxable as wages. These tips are subject to FICA, FUTA, and income tax.Tips of less than $20 a month are subject to income tax but are not subject to FICA or FUTA.
The fair market value of noncash tips (such as tickets or movie passes) is subject to income tax but is not subject to FICA or FUTA.The employee is required to report the tip income on Form 1040. Publication 531, Reporting Tip Income, covers the tax rules for employees who receive tips."
"Brylee is self-employed. One of her vendors sends her a Form 1099-NEC with the wrong amount of income reported. What should Brylee do in this scenario?A. Report the income as stated on the Form 1099-NEC.B. File a grievance with the Taxpayer Advocate's Office.C. Contact the IRS for a corrected Form 1099-NEC.D. Contact the vendor for a corrected Form 1099-NEC.","D:A taxpayer who receives a Form 1099-NEC or a Form 1099-MISC with the wrong dollar amounts reported should first contact the payor, and request a corrected Form 1099 (this question is based on an actual EA exam question released by the IRS)."
"What is a wage garnishment, and how is this amount taxed?A. A wage garnishment is a mandatory deduction from an employee's paycheck, and the amounts are usually exempt from payroll taxes and income taxes.B. A wage garnishment is a voluntary deduction from an employee's paycheck, and it is fully deductible.C. A wage garnishment is a court-ordered diversion of part of an employee's salary to pay unpaid debts. The full amount of gross wages is taxable.D. A wage garnishment is a mandatory deduction from an employee's paycheck, and the amounts are usually deductible.","C:Wage garnishment occurs when a court orders part of an employee’s salary to be diverted to pay unpaid debts. Employees may have their wages garnished for various reasons, such as when they owe child support, back taxes, or other debts. Regardless of the amounts garnished from the employee's paycheck, the full amount of gross wages must be included in the employee's taxable wages at year-end."
"Which of the following items may be nontaxable to the recipient?A. Supplemental wagesB. Medicare waiver paymentsC. Self-employment income from a side-gigD. Tips received by food servers","B:Medicare waiver payments may be exempt from tax. The exemption for Medicare waiver payments applies if the care provider and the care recipient live together in the same home. The exemption applies to anyone providing care in their own home, regardless of who owns the home. It is not necessary for the caregiver to be related to the disabled individual, although this is often the case. All of the other choices would be taxable income to the recipient."
"Which types of debts can typically lead to a wage garnishment?A. Unpaid mortgage paymentsB. Delinquent credit cardsC. Personal loansD. Delinquent tax debts","D:Delinquent tax debts (either federal or state tax debts) can lead to a wage garnishment. Wage garnishment occurs when a court orders part of an employee’s salary to be diverted to pay unpaid debts. Employees may have their wages garnished for various reasons, such as when they owe child support, back taxes, or other debts. Regardless of the amounts garnished from the employee's paycheck, the full amount of gross wages must be included in the employee's taxable wages at year-end."
"Norman is an executive working for a large corporation. The corporation offers him 500 shares of restricted stock, valued at $14,000. He cannot sell or otherwise use the shares for three years. If Norman quits his job, he forfeits the 500 shares. How should this be treated on Norman's tax return?A. The stock is taxable to Norman only if it is significantly valuable.B. The stock is not taxable to Norman because it is an illegal transaction.C. The stock is not taxable to Norman because it is classified as intangible property.D. The stock is not included in Norman's income until it is available to him without restriction.","D:Property received “in lieu” of wages is generally considered taxable income. However, if an employee receives restricted stock or other property that is restricted, the property is not taxable or included in their taxable income until it is available to the employee without restriction."
"Haley had to quit her job because of an injury. After she quit her job, she had the following income items received during the year. How much taxable income should she report on Form 1040?$2,000 in welfare benefits$6,000 in Worker's compensation benefits$8,000 in rental income from renting a bedroom in her home$4,000 gambling winnings from a casino$7,900 in unemployment benefits$5,000 in severance pay.A. $26,900B. $17,000C. $24,900D. $32,900","C:The welfare benefits and Worker's compensation benefits would not be taxable to Haley. The other items would be taxable. The answer is figured as follows: ($8,000 + $4,000 + $7,900 + $5,000) = $24,900 in taxable income."
"Jessie is unmarried and the sole proprietor of two small businesses, a hot dog stand, and an online auction business. The online auction business has a net income of $50,000, while the hot dog stand has a net loss of ($23,000) for the year. He also earns $5,600 in wages from a seasonal job at a department store, where he only works during the holidays in December. Based on these facts, how much net income must Jessie pay self-employment tax on?A. $50,000B. $32,600C. $27,000D. $28,600","C:Jessie must pay self-employment tax on $27,000 ($50,000 - $23,000) of income because he may “net” the income and losses from both his businesses. If a taxpayer owns more than one business, he or she must net the profit or loss from each business to determine the total earnings subject to SE tax.Note: The wages that he earns from his part-time job are not part of this calculation because the self-employment tax does not apply to wages (wages are instead subject to payroll taxes, which are already withheld by the employer)."
"Lacie has a regular job as a secretary, as well as a side-gig as a self-employed actress. She had the following income items during the year. Based on the following information, how much gross income should she report on Schedule C?$14,000 for an acting gig for a local Shakespeare festival, reported to her on 1099-NEC$2,000 for other acting gigs, not reported on 1099-NEC$19,500 in wages from her regular job$900 in unemployment compensation$700 from a state tax refund$600 from a scratch-off lottery ticketA. $14,000B. $16,600C. $18,200D. $16,000","D:Lacie should report $16,000 as self-employment income on Schedule C. This is the $14,000 in self-employment income that was reported to her on the 1099-NEC, as well as the other $2,000 in income that was not reported on a 1099-NEC."
"Gene had the following potentially taxable transactions. How much income, if any, should be included on his 2023 return?$200 in interest credited to his savings account on December 31. He did not withdraw any money from the account during the entire year.$2,000 withheld from his paycheck by his employer to satisfy a garnishment for past-due child support.$1,000 winnings from a scratch-off ticket.$500 check received on December 25 from an individual for one of Gene’s original drawings. Gene didn’t cash or deposit the check until the next year.$6,000 inheritance from his deceased father.A. $9,700B. $3,700C. $1,700D. $3,200","B:All of the amounts are taxable income, except for the $6,000 inheritance from his deceased father, which is not taxable. The answer is figured as follows:Interest 	$200Garnished wages 	$2,000Lottery winnings 	$1,000Payment for painting 	$500Taxable amount  	$3,700"
"Penelope is a retired Air Force veteran who now works as a self-employed bookkeeper, but she also has a variety of income from other sources. She receives Medicare waiver payments for taking care of her disabled father, Larry, who lives with her in her home, but Larry is not her dependent. Penelope's brother died during the year, and she was the sole beneficiary of his life insurance policy. Based on the following information, how much taxable income should Penelope report on Form 1040?$8,000 in Medicare waiver payments$9,000 in VA disability benefits from a service-connected injury$28,000 in bookkeeping income from various clients$500 in gambling winnings from a slot machine$2,000 in interest income from a bank account$45,000 life insurance payoutA. $38,500B. $47,500C. $75,500D. $30,500","D:The VA disability benefits, Medicare waiver payments, and the life insurance payout would not be taxable to Penelope. The other items would be taxable. The answer is figured as follows: ($28,000 + $500 + $2,000) = $30,500 in taxable income."
"Samuel, a degree candidate at Amlo Community College, had education-related expenses and received financial assistance as follows:Tuition: $3,000Required activity fees: $ 300Books and supplies: $ 900Room and board: $3,500Academic scholarship: $2,500Food stamps: $1,000Scholarship from a veteran's organization: $2,500How much taxable income does he have, if any?A. $800B. $4,200C. $0D. $5,000","A:Samuel has $800 in taxable income. The answer is figured as follows:Tuition 	 $3,000Fees 	$300Books and supplies 	$900Qualifying educational expenses 	$4,200Scholarships ($2,500 + $2,500) 	$5,000Taxable amount  	$800.Scholarships that pay for qualified educational costs at eligible educational institutions are not considered taxable income. The two scholarships Samuel received can offset his qualifying educational expenses. The amounts for room and board are not qualifying educational expenses. If any part of a scholarship was used for room and board, travel, or personal living expenses, etc., that portion is taxable."
"Sammy had the following income items received during the year. How much taxable income should he report on his Form 1040?$4,000 in Worker's compensation benefits$2,000 in interest earned on a high-yield savings account$3,000 winnings from a scratch-off ticket$1,500 in holiday pay from his employer$16,000 in regular wagesA. $17,500B. $22,500C. $25,000D. $26,500","B:All of the income would be taxable, except for the Worker's compensation benefits. Worker's compensation is not treated as wages, and is not taxable. Worker's compensation should not be confused with disability insurance, sick pay, or unemployment compensation; it is a type of benefit that pays workers who are injured on the job."
"Unger had the following income items during the year. Which of the following would be fully taxable as wages, and subject to Social Security and Medicare taxes?A. $15,000 in Veterans' disability benefits
B. $12,000 in unemployment benefitsC. $17,000 in severance pay when he quit his jobD. $11,500 in Worker's compensation","C:Only the $17,000 in severance pay would be fully taxable as wages. Severance pay is considered a type of supplemental wages or employee compensation.The Veterans' disability and worker's compensation would not be taxable. Unemployment compensation would be taxable, but would not be taxable as wages."
"Supplemental wages are compensation paid to an employee in addition to their regular pay. Which of the following types of income would not be classified as 'supplemental wages?'A. Holiday payB. Sick payC. Vacation payD. Worker's compensation","D:Supplemental wages are compensation paid to an employee in addition to their regular pay. Vacation pay and sick pay are examples of supplemental wages that are taxable just like any other wage income, even though the employee has not technically “worked” for the income. Supplemental wages also include:Bonuses, commissions, prizes,Severance pay, back pay, and holiday pay,Payment for nondeductible moving expenses.However, worker's compensation is not treated as wages, and is not taxable. Worker's compensation should not be confused with disability insurance, sick pay, or unemployment compensation; it is a type of benefit that pays workers who are injured on the job."
