"What is the tax treatment when an employee receives employer-provided life insurance coverage that exceeds $50,000?A. The value of employer-provided life insurance coverage is always excluded from the employee's wages.B. Life insurance is only taxable if the life insurance is cashed in.C. The insurance coverage is only taxable if redeemed.D. The value of employer-provided life insurance coverage over $50,000 is taxable to the employee.","D:The value of employer-provided life insurance coverage over $50,000 is taxable to the employee, meaning it will be included in the employee's taxable wages. Group life insurance coverage under $50,000 is not taxable to the employee and can be offered as a tax-free fringe benefit.","Fringe Benefits"
"Pepe is a marketing executive for an advertising firm. He lives and works in New York City. He is required to travel to Las Vegas for a month to work on a client's account. He stays in an extended-stay suite that has a kitchen and laundry facilities in the room. He is reimbursed by his employer under an accountable plan for all of his costs while in Las Vegas. Which of his expenses qualify to be excluded from his income?A. His flight, lodging, restaurant meals, groceries, and laundry supplies or services are all excluded from income, and not taxable to him.B. Laundry supplies to do laundry in his suite are excluded, but not laundry services.C. His flight, lodging, restaurant meals, and groceries are all excluded, but not laundry expenses.D. Reasonable groceries to cook meals in his suite are excluded, but not restaurant meals.","A:The flight, lodging, restaurant meals, groceries, and laundry supplies or services are all considered non-taxable and not counted as part of his income, because the expenses reimbursed by an employer under an accountable plan are generally not taxable income.","Fringe Benefits"
"Which of the following would be considered a taxable fringe benefit to an employee?A. Cafeteria plan benefitsB. Employer-provided life insurance under $50,000C. Off-site athletic facilities and health club membershipsD. Medical and dental insurance","C:Off-site athletic facilities and health club memberships would be a taxable fringe benefit to an employee. The other choices listed would not be taxable fringe benefits and can be offered as a 'pre-tax' fringe benefit to employees.","Fringe Benefits"
"Paul is a full-time employee of Carpet Warehouse. Paul frequently travels to meet with customers. Paul's employer gives him $500 a month ($6,000 for the year) for his business expenses. Paul does not have to provide any proof of his expenses to his employer and he can keep any funds that he does not spend. His actual expenses for the year were $1,000 for lodging, $600 for meals while away from home, and $2,000 for entertainment, when he took 5 of his best vendors out to a baseball game. What reporting is required of Paul's employer and what reporting is required of Paul?A. Employer adds $6,000 to wages reported on Paul's Form W-2; Paul can report $3,600 as a miscellaneous itemized deduction on Schedule AB. Employer adds $6,000 to wages reported on Paul's Form W-2; Paul cannot deduct the expenses on his tax return.C. Employer adds $6,000 to wages reported on Paul's Form W-2; Paul can report $1,600 as a miscellaneous itemized deduction on Schedule AD. Employer adds $6,000 to wages reported on Paul's Form W-2; Paul can report $1,600 as an adjustment to income.","B:This is a nonaccountable plan. Since Paul does not have to submit any receipts or substantiation to his employer, this means that the employer must add $6,000 to wages reported on Paul's Form W-2. Paul cannot deduct the expenses on his tax return.Note: Because of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, employee business expenses can be deducted as an adjustment to income only for specific employment categories. Armed Forces reservists, qualified performing artists, fee-basis state or local government officials, and individuals with disabilities may still deduct employee expenses on Form 2106.","Fringe Benefits"
