4. Question ID: 95003080 (Topic: Personal Casualty and Theft Losses)

Brandon's main home was located in the Gulf Coast and was completely destroyed by a hurricane in 2023. His entire county was later designated a federally declared disaster area. Brandon's insurance did not cover very much, and he wants to claim a casualty deduction for the losses he incurred from the disaster. How must he claim this loss? 

    A. He can claim the losses on Schedule A, as a miscellaneous deduction. 
    B. He can claim the losses on Schedule C. 
    C. He can claim the losses on his return using Form 4684.correct
    D. He can claim the losses on Form 4797. wrong

Study Unit 12: Standard Deduction and Itemized Deductions covers the information for this question.

This question is answered correctly on the first attempt by 44% of students.

Correct Answer Explanation for C:

Brandon must use Form 4684, Casualties and Thefts, to report his losses from the casualty. A deductible casualty loss is an individual's casualty or theft loss of personal-use property that is attributable to a federally declared disaster. He can deduct casualty losses in one of two ways:

    On the tax return in the year the disaster happened, or
    File an amended return to deduct the loss in the year prior to the disaster

1. Question ID: 94849812 (Topic: Personal Casualty and Theft Losses)

Which of the following personal casualty losses would be deductible as an itemized deduction on Schedule A?

    A. The destruction of a personal-use vehicle from an auto accident.
    B. Decline in value of a home due to graffiti.
    C. Theft of personal jewelry from a home robbery.
    D. A casualty loss suffered in a federal disaster area.correct

Study Unit 12: Standard Deduction and Itemized Deductions covers the information for this question.

This question is answered correctly on the first attempt by 93% of students.

Correct Answer Explanation for D:

A casualty loss suffered in a federal disaster area would be deductible. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act eliminated the deduction for personal casualty losses, with the exception of casualty losses suffered in a federal disaster area.

Note: Casualty losses on business or rental property are still fully deductible, regardless of whether the losses occur in a federal disaster area or not, but theft and casualty losses of business property do not get reported on Schedule A. For more information about casualty losses, see Publication 547, Casualties, Disasters, and Thefts.

2. Question ID: 94849998 (Topic: Personal Casualty and Theft Losses)

In order to deduct a PERSONAL casualty loss, the loss must be:

    A. Reduced by the amount of your standard deduction.
    B. Personal casualty losses are not deductible.
    C. Less than 30% of your adjusted gross income.
    D. Related to a federally declared disaster area.correct

Study Unit 12: Standard Deduction and Itemized Deductions covers the information for this question.

This question is answered correctly on the first attempt by 86% of students.

Correct Answer Explanation for D:

In order to deduct a PERSONAL casualty loss, the loss must be related to a federally declared disaster area. See Publication 547, Casualties, Disasters, and Thefts for more information on deductible casualty losses. 

3. Question ID: 94815899 (Topic: Personal Casualty and Theft Losses)

Janessa and Willard are married, but they file separate tax returns. If Willard wants to itemize his casualty losses, then _____.

    A. Janessa must take the standard deduction.
    B. They will have to file jointly.
    C. Willard cannot itemize his casualty losses if he files MFS.
    D. Janessa must either itemize her deductions or claim a zero standard deduction.correct

Study Unit 12: Standard Deduction and Itemized Deductions covers the information for this question.

This question is answered correctly on the first attempt by 87% of students.

Correct Answer Explanation for D:

If Willard itemizes his deductions and files MFS, then Janessa is forced to itemize as well. If one MFS spouse chooses to itemize, the other is required to itemize as well, even if their itemized deductions are zero. However, if both spouses file MFS and BOTH choose to take the standard deduction, that is perfectly fine.


