
Skip to content
1. Question ID: 94849988 (Topic: Charitable Contributions)

Taxpayers with more than $500 in total noncash contributions must:

    A. Retain a written acknowledgment from the organization. No additional forms or appraisals are required.
    B. Obtain a professional appraisal for the goods.
    C. File Form 8283 and retain a written acknowledgment (receipt) from the organization.correct
    D. File Form 8283 and obtain a professional appraisal for the goods.wrong

Study Unit 12: Standard Deduction and Itemized Deductions covers the information for this question.

This question is answered correctly on the first attempt by 73% of students.

Correct Answer Explanation for C:

Taxpayers with more than $500 in total noncash contributions must file Form 8283, Noncash Charitable Contributions, and retain a written acknowledgment or receipt from the organization. For more information, see Publication 526, Charitable Contributions.

3. Question ID: 94849897 (Topic: Charitable Contributions)

Which of the following charitable gifts would be deductible on Schedule A?

    A. A donation to a nonprofit social club. 
    B. The cost of raffle tickets at a church charity event.
    C. Out-of-pocket expenses when a taxpayer serves a 501(C)3 organization as a volunteercorrect
    D. A donation to a political party. wrong

Study Unit 12: Standard Deduction and Itemized Deductions covers the information for this question.

This question is answered correctly on the first attempt by 72% of students.

Correct Answer Explanation for C:

Out-of-pocket expenses when a taxpayer serves a 501(C)3 organization as a volunteer would be deductible. The following donations would not be deductible as charitable gifts, even if made to a qualifying charity.

    Donations to Civic leagues, social and sports clubs, labor unions, and chambers of commerce
    Gifts to foreign organizations (except certain Canadian, Israeli, and Mexican charities)
    Groups that are run for personal profit
    Political groups or groups whose purpose is to lobby for law changes
    Cost of raffle, bingo, or lottery tickets
    Dues, fees, or bills paid to country clubs, lodges, fraternal orders, or similar groups
    Value of your time or services
    Value of blood given to a blood bank.

See Publication 526, Charitable Contributions for more information. 

4. Question ID: 94849960 (Topic: Charitable Contributions)

Barnes pays $300 a year for membership in a university's athletic scholarship program, which is a qualified charitable organization. The only benefit of membership is that he has the right to buy one season ticket for a seat in a designated area of the stadium at the university's home football games. He doesn't actually purchase any football tickets or go to any games. How much of this is a qualified charitable contribution?

    A. He can deduct $300 as a charitable contribution.
    B. He can only deduct 50% as a charitable contribution ($150).
    C. He cannot deduct a charitable contribution.correct
    D. He can deduct $240 (80% of $300) as a charitable contribution.wrong

Study Unit 12: Standard Deduction and Itemized Deductions covers the information for this question.

This question is answered correctly on the first attempt by 43% of students.

Correct Answer Explanation for C:

Because of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, no deduction is allowed for any amount paid for the right to purchase tickets for seating at an athletic event in a college athletic stadium. This is considered a "quid pro quo" contribution. A quid pro quo contribution is a charitable donation for which the donor receives something from the recipient in exchange for their funds. The fact that Barnes didn't take advantage of the perk and purchase any football tickets is irrelevant.  For more information, see Publication 526, Charitable Contributions.

5. Question ID: 94849959 (Topic: Charitable Contributions)

Charitable donations of appreciated stock are usually valued at ________________.

    A. The fair market value of the stock on the date of the donation.correct
    B. The taxpayer's basis in the stock.
    C. The estimated value that is made by a licensed appraiser. 
    D. The value on the date of purchase.wrong

Study Unit 12: Standard Deduction and Itemized Deductions covers the information for this question.

This question is answered correctly on the first attempt by 85% of students.

Correct Answer Explanation for A:

Donations of stock are usually valued at the fair market value (FMV) of the property. When a taxpayer donates appreciated stock to charity, the taxpayer can generally take a tax deduction for the full fair market value of the stock, and no appraisal is required (as long as the stock is publicly traded). For more information, see Publication 526, Charitable Contributions.

6. Question ID: 94849965 (Topic: Charitable Contributions)

Penny donates her used car to her local animal shelter, a qualifying organization. She bought it a few years ago for $19,000. A used car guide shows the fair market value for her car is currently $4,100. A few months later, Penny gets a Form 1098-C from the organization showing the car was sold for $3,900. She did not obtain any type of formal appraisal for the car. Penny plans to itemize her deductions. What is the amount that she can deduct on Schedule A for her donation?

    A. $500
    B. $4,100
    C. $19,000 (her basis in the vehicle)wrong
    D. $3,900correct

Study Unit 12: Standard Deduction and Itemized Deductions covers the information for this question.

This question is answered correctly on the first attempt by 87% of students.

Correct Answer Explanation for D:

She can deduct $3,900 for her donation. She must attach Form 1098-C that she received from the charity and Form 8283, Noncash Charitable Contributions, to her return. This question is based directly on an example in Publication 526, Charitable Contributions.

7. Question ID: 94849901 (Topic: Charitable Contributions)

Sonia volunteers for 15 hours in the office of a local homeless shelter, which is a qualified 501(c)3 charity. The full-time receptionist is paid $10 an hour to do the same work Sonia does. Sonia makes $15 per hour as a cashier at her regular job. She also has $16 of out-of-pocket expenses for bus fare to the shelter. How much can Sonia deduct on her taxes as a charitable contribution?

    A. $16correct
    B. $150
    C. $241
    D. $225wrong

Study Unit 12: Standard Deduction and Itemized Deductions covers the information for this question.

This question is answered correctly on the first attempt by 88% of students.

Correct Answer Explanation for A:

Sonia cannot deduct the value of her time or services as a charitable deduction. However, she can deduct out-of-pocket expenses and transportation costs for getting to and from the place where she volunteers. Sonia cannot use the standard mileage rate because she did not use her own car for transportation.

8. Question ID: 94849964 (Topic: Charitable Contributions)

Jimmy paid $65 for a ticket to enter a charity fun run at his local church. His entire $65 entry fee goes to the church. Jimmy also gets a t-shirt for participating in the fun run. The shirt has a fair market value of $15. Jimmy participates in the fun run and has a good time. What amount of his charitable gift is deductible on Schedule A?

    A. $0
    B. $50correct
    C. $65
    D. $15wrong

Study Unit 12: Standard Deduction and Itemized Deductions covers the information for this question.

This question is answered correctly on the first attempt by 63% of students.

Correct Answer Explanation for B:

Jimmy's donation is limited to $50. To figure the amount of his charitable contribution, subtract the value of the benefit he received ($15 t-shirt) from his total payment ($65). He can deduct $50 as a charitable contribution to the church. For more information and similar examples, see Publication 526, Charitable Contributions.

9. Question ID: 94849826 (Topic: Charitable Contributions)

Which of the following can a taxpayer deduct as a qualified charitable contribution on Schedule A?

    A. Expenses paid for a foreign exchange student living with the taxpayer, if the student is sponsored by a qualified organization.correct
    B. Contribution to a fraternal society made for the purpose of paying burial expenses of a member.
    C. Appraisal fee that is required to substantiate the value of a fine art painting that was donated to a qualified charity.
    D. Payments made directly to a member of the clergy for his personal needs.wrong

Study Unit 12: Standard Deduction and Itemized Deductions covers the information for this question.

This question is answered correctly on the first attempt by 21% of students.

Correct Answer Explanation for A:

A taxpayer can deduct certain expenses paid for a foreign or American student who is living with him. The student must be sponsored by a qualifying organization, must not be related to the taxpayer, and must be participating in a program to provide educational opportunities. The student must be a full-time student in the twelfth grade or lower in the United States. The other answer choices are specifically prohibited as deductions.

10. Question ID: 94849864 (Topic: Charitable Contributions)

Harriet’s AGI is $50,000. She gave her church $2,000 cash and 300 shares of appreciated Ford Motors stock with a fair market value of $28,000 and a basis of $22,000. She had held the stock for ten years before deciding to donate it to her church. She plans to itemize this year. What is her allowable deduction for charitable gifts on Schedule A for 2023?

    A. $17,000correct
    B. $30,000
    C. $25,000
    D. $24,000wrong

Study Unit 12: Standard Deduction and Itemized Deductions covers the information for this question.

This question is answered correctly on the first attempt by 30% of students.

Correct Answer Explanation for A:

Harriet’s deduction is limited to $17,000 ($2,000 + $15,000).

The $2,000 cash donated to the church is fully deductible. However, the contribution of appreciated property (the stock) is subject to a 30%-of-AGI limit. Therefore, Harriet’s deduction for the appreciated stock is limited to $15,000 (30% limitation × $50,000 AGI). The unused part of the gift ($13,000) can be carried over to future tax years (for up to five years). Charitable contribution carryovers are typically limited to five years, except for qualified conservation easement contributions, which have a carryover period of 15 years.

For more information, see IRS Publication 526, Charitable Contributions. 

11. Question ID: 94849832 (Topic: Charitable Contributions)

Michael makes several charitable donations during the year. Which of the following donations does NOT meet the IRS’s recordkeeping requirements?

    A. A $300 donation to a local church. Michael has a canceled check for the donation but no receipt.correct
    B. A $600 donation of a car to a local charity. Michael has a Form 1098-C for the donation.
    C. A $100 donation of clothing to Goodwill. Michael has a receipt for the donation.
    D. A $240 donation to an animal shelter. Michael has a canceled check for the donation, but no receipt.wrong

Study Unit 12: Standard Deduction and Itemized Deductions covers the information for this question.

This question is answered correctly on the first attempt by 62% of students.

Correct Answer Explanation for A:

The $300 donation to his local church does not meet all the substantiation requirements. Michael has a canceled check for the donation, but no receipt, and the donation amount is OVER $250.

For any single contribution of $250 or more (including contributions of cash or property), a canceled check or receipt alone is insufficient. The taxpayer must also obtain and keep in his records a contemporaneous written acknowledgment from the qualified organization indicating the amount of the cash and a description of any property contributed. The acknowledgment must say whether the organization provided any goods or services in exchange for the gift and, if so, must provide a description and a good faith estimate of the value of those goods or services.

To learn more about deducting charitable contributions, see IRS Topic No. 506 Charitable Contributions.

12. Question ID: 94849963 (Topic: Charitable Contributions)

Wilford donates his used car to a qualified charity. He bought it 5 years ago for $9,000. A used car guide shows the fair market value for his car is $4,000. The charity auctions the car. Wilford gets a Form 1098-C from the organization showing the car was sold for $2,900. What is the maximum that he can claim as a charitable deduction on Schedule A?

    A. $9,000
    B. $2,900correct
    C. $4,000
    D. $500, unless he has a qualified appraisal.wrong

Study Unit 12: Standard Deduction and Itemized Deductions covers the information for this question.

This question is answered correctly on the first attempt by 89% of students.

Correct Answer Explanation for B:

If Wilford itemizes his deductions, he can deduct $2,900 for his donation, because that was the value that was reported on Form 1098-C. Special rules apply to the donation of vehicles. The charitable organization must file a Form 1098-C, Contributions of Motor Vehicles, Boats, and Airplanes, with the IRS for each contribution of a qualified vehicle that has a claimed value of more than $500. For more information, see Publication 526,Charitable Contributions.

13. Question ID: 94849863 (Topic: Charitable Contributions)

Boyce is a self-employed carpenter. He did a pro-bono construction job for a church, donating his labor and the materials. He normally charges $40 an hour for labor and the materials cost $320. He worked on the project for 4 hours. Assuming he gets a written acknowledgment for his donation, how much of his contribution is deductible on his Schedule C?

    A. $250
    B. $0correct
    C. $320
    D. $480wrong

Study Unit 12: Standard Deduction and Itemized Deductions covers the information for this question.

This question is answered correctly on the first attempt by 23% of students.

Correct Answer Explanation for B:

Boyce cannot deduct any charitable contributions on Schedule C, because the Schedule C is for reporting business activities only. If he itemizes deductions, he may be able to take a charitable deduction for the cost of the materials only. The value of his labor is not a tax deductible expense for charitable purposes.

14. Question ID: 94849831 (Topic: Charitable Contributions)

The following taxpayers all made charitable contributions to the same church. Which of the following taxpayers is required to fill out Form 8283 and attach it to his or her return in order to claim a deduction?

    A. Debra, whose non-cash contributions totaled $600 for the year.correct
    B. Santos, who made a non-cash donation of furniture valued at $250.
    C. Hunter, whose deductible cash contributions totaled $550.
    D. Abudalla, who made a single cash contribution of $650 to a qualified organization.wrong

Study Unit 12: Standard Deduction and Itemized Deductions covers the information for this question.

This question is answered correctly on the first attempt by 72% of students.

Correct Answer Explanation for A:

Debra is the only one required to fill out Form 8283, Noncash Charitable Contributions, and attach it to her return. Any non-cash donation over $500 must be described on Form 8283. To learn more about deducting charitable contributions, see IRS Topic No. 506 Charitable Contributions.

15. Question ID: 94849972 (Topic: Charitable Contributions)

Dulcimer's church holds a charity auction. At the fundraising auction, Dulcimer pays $600 for a week's stay at a beach house. All of the proceeds go to the church. The amount he pays is no more than the fair rental value. How much can he deduct as a charitable contribution?

    A. $0correct
    B. $600
    C. $300
    D. $200wrong

Study Unit 12: Standard Deduction and Itemized Deductions covers the information for this question.

This question is answered correctly on the first attempt by 76% of students.

Correct Answer Explanation for A:

In this example, the taxpayer has not made a deductible charitable contribution. That is because the $600 that he paid for the week's stay at the beach house did not exceed the FMV. From IRS Publication 526: If you receive a benefit as a result of making a contribution to a qualified organization, you can deduct only the amount of your contribution that is more than the value of the benefit you receive.

For more information, see Publication 526, Charitable Contributions.

17. Question ID: 94851038 (Topic: Charitable Contributions)

What documentation is required for a cash donation of less than $250 to a qualified charity?

    A. No documentation is required if the amount is less than $250.
    B. A canceled check, bank or credit union statement, or credit card statement that shows the name of the qualified organization, the date of the contribution, and the amount of the contribution.
    C. A canceled check, bank or credit union statement, credit card statement, or a receipt that shows the name of the qualified organization, the date of the contribution, and the amount of the contribution.correct
    D. A receipt (or letter or other written communication) from the qualified organization showing the name of the organization, the date of the contribution, and the amount of the contribution.wrong

Study Unit 12: Standard Deduction and Itemized Deductions covers the information for this question.

This question is answered correctly on the first attempt by 36% of students.

Correct Answer Explanation for C:

When making cash gifts of less than $250, the taxpayer may substantiate the deduction using a canceled check, credit card statement or a simple receipt from the charity. A receipt from the charity is also acceptable. Cash gifts of more than $250 require a note from the charity that shows the amount, date and name of the donor.

18. Question ID: 94849809 (Topic: Charitable Contributions)

Denise, age 77, and Gary, age 78, are married and file jointly. Because of their age, they are both required to take an IRA distribution this year. Instead of taking their required RMDs, they would like to use money from their traditional IRA accounts to donate directly to their favorite church. Between the two of them, what is the maximum amount they could withdraw from their IRA as a “qualified charitable distribution” in 2023?

    A. $200,000correct
    B. $10,000
    C. $100,000
    D. $50,000wrong

Study Unit 12: Standard Deduction and Itemized Deductions covers the information for this question.

This question is answered correctly on the first attempt by 34% of students.

Correct Answer Explanation for A:

They can donate up to $200,000 as a married couple directly from their IRA accounts. A "Qualified Charitable Contribution" or QCD, is when a taxpayer who is at least age 70½ directs his or her IRA trustee to make a distribution directly to a public charity. The maximum per year is $100,000 each ($200,000 for MFJ taxpayers). The QCD is not included in the income of the IRA owner, and the owner doesn’t receive a charitable contribution deduction.

The IRA trustee must make the distribution directly to the qualified charity (in other words, the taxpayer cannot request a distribution and then donate the money later; the trustee has to make the contribution to the charity directly).

Note: The SECURE Act increased the age at which individuals must start taking required minimum distributions (RMDs) to 73 in 2023. However, the SECURE Act did NOT change the age at which taxpayers can make a QCD (that is still 70½). For more information on Retirement Distributions, see Publication 590-B, Distributions from Individual Retirement Arrangements.

22. Question ID: 94849850 (Topic: Charitable Contributions)

During a fundraising auction at his local church, Lyle pays $800 for a week at a beachfront hotel, where he spends his vacation in August. He intends his payment as a contribution, and all the proceeds go to help the church. The FMV of the stay is $750. What is Lyle’s charitable contribution?

    A. $750
    B. $0
    C. $50correct
    D. $800wrong

Study Unit 12: Standard Deduction and Itemized Deductions covers the information for this question.

This question is answered correctly on the first attempt by 60% of students.

Correct Answer Explanation for C:

Lyle can deduct only $50 because he received the benefit of staying at the property. Only the portion of the contribution in excess of the FMV of the item qualifies as a charitable contribution.

23. Question ID: 95002969 (Topic: Charitable Contributions)

Zamia pays $105 for a ticket to a church dinner. All the proceeds go to the church. The ticket to the dinner has an FMV of $20, equal to the cost of the dinner. At the dinner, Zamia buys $35 worth of raffle tickets, which the church is selling as a fundraiser. She does not win any raffle prizes. She made no other charitable gifts during the year. What is Zamia’s allowable charitable deduction on Schedule A?

    A. $85correct
    B. $140
    C. $195
    D. $120wrong

Study Unit 12: Standard Deduction and Itemized Deductions covers the information for this question.

This question is answered correctly on the first attempt by 73% of students.

Correct Answer Explanation for A:

Zamia must subtract the value of the benefit received ($20) from the total payment ($105). Therefore, Zamia can deduct $85 as a charitable contribution to the church. The cost of raffle tickets or other wagering activity is never deductible as a charitable contribution.

24. Question ID: 94849848 (Topic: Charitable Contributions)

Which of the following is a qualified charitable deduction?

    A. The cost of a raffle ticket at a church fundraiser.
    B. The fair market value of blood donated to the American Red Cross.
    C. Out-of-pocket travel expenses for a volunteer to attend a church fundraiser.correct
    D. Direct contributions to a teenage runaway.wrong

Study Unit 12: Standard Deduction and Itemized Deductions covers the information for this question.

This question is answered correctly on the first attempt by 72% of students.

Correct Answer Explanation for C:

For charity volunteers, transportation expenses can be deductible as an itemized deduction on Schedule A. Expenses include bus fare, parking fees, tolls, and either the cost of gas and oil or a standard mileage deduction for charitable activities. Raffle tickets (or any type of gambling expense) are never deductible as a charitable contribution, even if the event directly benefits a charity. Blood donations are not deductible, but the cost of travel to make a blood donation is a deductible expense. A taxpayer cannot deduct a donation that is made directly to a needy individual.

2. Question ID: 94849962 (Topic: Charitable Contributions)

Helen volunteers in the front office of a qualified charitable organization. The receptionist is paid $9 an hour for the same work. She estimates that she spent 40 hours volunteering during the year. She also drives her own car to the organization and has 200 charitable miles for the year. What is Helen's deductible contribution on Schedule A?

    A. $116
    B. $0
    C. $360
    D. $28correct

Study Unit 12: Standard Deduction and Itemized Deductions covers the information for this question.

This question is answered correctly on the first attempt by 70% of students.

Correct Answer Explanation for D:

Helen can't deduct the value of her time or services. However, she can deduct her charitable miles. The allowable deduction is 14 cents per mile driven in service of charitable organizations. She had 200 charitable miles, so her allowable deduction is (200 X 14 cents =$28). For more information, see Publication 526, Charitable Contributions.

16. Question ID: 94849971 (Topic: Charitable Contributions)

Jennifer purchases 50 Bibles on sale for $1,000, using an online coupon for 50% off. The normal retail value of the Bibles is $2,000. She contributes all the Bibles for use by her church, which is a qualified charitable organization. The church uses the Bibles during religious services. What is her allowable charitable contribution deduction?

    A. $2,000
    B. $0
    C. $500 (50% of $1,000)
    D. $1,000correct

Study Unit 12: Standard Deduction and Itemized Deductions covers the information for this question.

This question is answered correctly on the first attempt by 69% of students.

Correct Answer Explanation for D:

Jennifer can claim a deduction only for the price that she paid for the Bibles. Therefore, her charitable contribution is $1,000. For more information and similar examples, see Publication 526, Charitable Contributions.

19. Question ID: 94849977 (Topic: Charitable Contributions)

The deduction for a motor vehicle donated to charity is usually limited to:

    A. $500
    B. Its Blue Book value.
    C. Its appraised value.
    D. The smaller of fair market value or gross proceeds from its sale.correct

Study Unit 12: Standard Deduction and Itemized Deductions covers the information for this question.

This question is answered correctly on the first attempt by 79% of students.

Correct Answer Explanation for D:

If the taxpayer claims a deduction of more than $500 for any donation of a vehicle, including a boat or an airplane, he can only deduct the smaller of:

    The gross proceeds from the sale of the item by the charity, or
    The fair market value on the date of the contribution.

The charitable organization should provide Form 1098-C, Contributions of Motor Vehicles, Boats, and Airplanes, or a similar statement that shows the gross proceeds from the sale of the vehicle donated. If the taxpayer does not attach Form 1098-C to his return, the maximum deduction that usually can be taken for the donation is limited to $500. 

20. Question ID: 95002988 (Topic: Charitable Contributions)

Wendy donated the following amounts to the SPCA, a qualified 501(c)3 charity. All of the following are deductible as charitable donations except:

    A. Fair market value of the used kitchen appliances, in good condition, she donated to the SPCA.
    B. The donation of 10 shares of appreciated stock.
    C. Mileage costs for driving to and from her volunteer shift at the SPCA.
    D. Fair market value of the hours she spent volunteering at the charity.correct

Study Unit 12: Standard Deduction and Itemized Deductions covers the information for this question.

This question is answered correctly on the first attempt by 90% of students.

Correct Answer Explanation for D:

Wendy cannot deduct the value of her volunteer hours. The value of a person's time and service is never deductible. The rest of the choices would all be deductible as a charitable gift on Schedule A, assuming that substantiation requirements were met.

21. Question ID: 94849844 (Topic: Charitable Contributions)

Farah volunteered to work at her church’s annual fundraiser, a yard sale. Which of the following expenses are not allowed as a charitable deduction?

    A. Her transportation expenses for driving to and from the church during the sale.
    B. Cash contribution to purchase office supplies for the yard sale.
    C. Fair market value of used kitchen appliances, in good condition, that she donated to the church.
    D. Fair market value of the hours she spent staffing the yard sale.correct

Study Unit 12: Standard Deduction and Itemized Deductions covers the information for this question.

This question is answered correctly on the first attempt by 90% of students.

Correct Answer Explanation for D:

The value of a person's time and service is not deductible. All of the other expenses are allowed. To learn more about charitable contributions, see IRS Topic No. 506 Charitable Contributions.

25. Question ID: 94849854 (Topic: Charitable Contributions)

Colby donates an expensive oil painting to a qualified charity. He plans to deduct $8,000 for the donation, which is the painting's FMV. What does the IRS require in order for Colby to substantiate the painting's value?

    A. Hire a qualified appraiser to make a written appraisal of the painting. Colby must attach a copy of the appraisal to his tax return.
    B. Obtain a receipt from the charity.
    C. Obtain a receipt and a written statement of value from the charity.
    D. Hire a qualified appraiser to make a written appraisal of the painting.correct

Study Unit 12: Standard Deduction and Itemized Deductions covers the information for this question.

This question is answered correctly on the first attempt by 30% of students.

Correct Answer Explanation for D:

Colby must hire a qualified appraiser to make a written appraisal of the painting. If any single donation or a group of similar items is valued at over $5,000, a qualified appraiser is required to make a written appraisal of the donated property. The taxpayer must also complete Form 8283, Noncash Charitable Contributions, Section B, and attach it to his tax return. He generally does not have to attach the appraisal itself, but must retain a copy for his records.

Note: For large donations of artwork valued at more than $20,000, or other property valued at more than $500,000, the appraisal itself must be included with the tax return.


