1. Question ID: 94849725 (Topic: Dividend and Distribution Income)

"Gerardo is the sole shareholder of a C corporation that offers financial services. The corporation pays Gerardo’s personal expenses, including rent on his personal home, which the corporation wrongly deducts as a business expense. The corporation is later audited by the IRS, and the improper expenses are disallowed. How could these corporate distributions affect Gerardo’s personal income tax return?

A. The distributions are treated as a nontaxable fringe benefit.wrong
B. The distributions are treated as a stock option.
C. There would be no taxable effect.
D. The distributions would likely be treated as a constructive distribution and would be taxable on Gerardo’s personal income tax return.correct

Study Unit 5: Investment Income and Expenses covers the information for this question.

This question is answered correctly on the first attempt by 95% of students.

Correct Answer Explanation for D:

The distributions would likely be treated as a constructive distribution and would be taxable on Gerardo’s personal income tax return. Certain transactions between a corporation and its shareholders may be regarded as constructive distributions (or constructive dividends). A constructive dividend is taxable to the shareholder, and not deductible to the corporation, so it has a very negative impact. Constructive dividends are usually assessed under audit. Examples include when a corporation:

Pays personal expenses on behalf of an employee-shareholder.
Pays an employee-shareholder an unreasonably high salary considering the services actually performed.
Rents property from a shareholder and the rent is unreasonably higher than the shareholder would charge an unrelated party for use of the property.
Cancels a shareholder’s debt without repayment by the shareholder.
Loans money to a shareholder on an interest-free basis or at a below-market rate.

3. Question ID: 94849692 (Topic: Dividend and Distribution Income)

"Which of the following types of income are taxable?

A. Muni bond interest wrong
B. Worker's compensation
C. Qualified dividendscorrect
D. Cash inheritance 

Study Unit 5: Investment Income and Expenses covers the information for this question.

This question is answered correctly on the first attempt by 88% of students.

Correct Answer Explanation for C:

Qualified dividends are taxable income. The muni-bond interest does need to be reported on the taxpayer's return, but it is not taxable. Inheritances and worker's compensation are not taxable and generally do not need to be reported on the tax return (with the exception of foreign inheritances, which are not taxable, but may need to be reported on Form 3520).

4. Question ID: 94849525 (Topic: Dividend and Distribution Income)

"Luke owns 500 shares of ABC Stock. He receives a $200 non-dividend distribution during the year, which is reported on his 1099-DIV. His stock basis before the distribution was $4,000. How is the non-dividend distribution taxed?

A. The $200 distribution is taxed at ordinary income tax rates.wrong
B. The $200 distribution is taxed as portfolio income.
C. The non-dividend distribution is non-taxable, and lowers his basis in his stock.correct
D. The $200 distribution is taxed at capital gains rates.

Study Unit 5: Investment Income and Expenses covers the information for this question.

This question is answered correctly on the first attempt by 76% of students.

Correct Answer Explanation for C:

The non-dividend distribution is non-taxable, and lowers his basis in his stock. As long as Luke has basis in the investment, any non-dividend distribution will not be taxable. A non-dividend distribution is one that is not paid out of a corporation's earnings and profits, meaning that they represent a share in the capital rather than a share in the earnings.

5. Question ID: 94849769 (Topic: Dividend and Distribution Income)

"Danny is a 50% shareholder in Grand Toys, Inc., a C Corporation. Danny owns the office building in which the company is located, and he charges rent to the company of $5,000 per month. However, other similar buildings are renting for an average of $2,000 per month in the same area. Later, Grand Toys gets audited by the IRS, and the portion of these rent payments that exceeds the fair market price are deemed excessive. What is the tax result for Danny and the corporation?

A. The excessive rents will become taxable to Danny as wages, and the corporation and Danny will owe payroll tax on the full amount. wrong
B. The corporation will be taxed an additional 20% accumulated earnings tax on the disallowed amounts. 
C. There is no tax effect for either Danny or the corporation. 
D. The excessive rents will be taxable to Danny as a constructive dividend, and no longer deductible by the corporation as a business expense. correct

Study Unit 5: Investment Income and Expenses covers the information for this question.

This question is answered correctly on the first attempt by 87% of students.

Correct Answer Explanation for D:

The excessive rents will be taxable to Danny as a constructive dividend, and no longer deductible by the corporation as a business expense. When a corporate shareholder uses corporate funds in a way that do not constitute business expenses, these expenditures can be reclassified by the IRS as a constructive dividend. A constructive dividend is a payment or a benefit given to a shareholder in a company that is not intended or classified as a distribution to the shareholder, but which is classified later as a dividend by the IRS and thus becomes taxable to the shareholder, and nondeductible to the corporation. Other examples of constructive dividends include:

Excessive compensation, including excessive rents paid to the shareholder
Use by shareholders of corporate property
Payment of personal expenses with corporate funds
Assumption of shareholder debt by the corporation

6. Question ID: 94849695 (Topic: Dividend and Distribution Income)

"Two years ago, Nadira bought 100 shares of Great Lakes Inc. stock for $10,000. On January 29, 2023, she received a non-dividend distribution of $6,000 from the company. On December 15, 2023, she received another non-dividend distribution of $5,000. What is the proper tax treatment for the second non-dividend distribution?

A. The amount is not taxable until she disposes of the stock.wrong
B. She must report a taxable distribution of $5,000.
C. She does not need to report the distribution because it is not taxable.
D. She must report a long-term capital gain of $1,000.correct

Study Unit 5: Investment Income and Expenses covers the information for this question.

This question is answered correctly on the first attempt by 59% of students.

Correct Answer Explanation for D:

She must report a long-term capital gain of $1,000. Distributions that are not paid out of earnings and profits are non-dividend distributions. Non-dividend distributions are considered a recovery or return of capital and therefore are generally not taxable. However, these distributions reduce the taxpayer's basis. The first distribution reduces her stock basis to $4,000 ($10,000 - $6,000). Once basis is reduced to zero, any additional distributions are capital gains and are taxed as such. The first $4,000 of the December $5,000 distribution reduces Nadira's basis to zero. She then must report a long-term capital gain of $1,000. Non-dividend distributions are reported on Form 1099-DIV.

7. Question ID: 94815900 (Topic: Dividend and Distribution Income)

"Kokona receives a Form 1099-DIV reporting a dividend payment. She is a U.S. citizen, however, she had failed to provide her correct Social Security number to the brokerage firm that manages her investments. She ignores all of the notices that the brokerage firm sends to her, and eventually they began to withhold taxes from her dividends. What percentage of income is likely to be withheld from her dividend income?

A. 0%wrong
B. 35%
C. 24%correct
D. 28%

Study Unit 5: Investment Income and Expenses covers the information for this question.

This question is answered correctly on the first attempt by 53% of students.

Correct Answer Explanation for C:

Backup withholding occurs when certain payers, such as banks or other businesses, are required to withhold and pay to the IRS a specified percentage of those payments. The backup withholding rate for U.S. citizens and U.S. residents is 24% in 2023. Backup withholding can apply to most kinds of payments that are reported on Form 1099. These include:

Interest payments
Dividends
Rents, profits, other gains (Form 1099-MISC)
Commissions, fees, or other payments for work done by independent contractors
Payments by brokers/barter exchanges
Royalty payments

Backup withholding applies in a number of instances, including when a payee fails to furnish her correct taxpayer identification number or when the IRS notifies a payer to start withholding on interest or dividends because the taxpayer has underreported them. See the IRS detail page on Backup Withholding. 

8. Question ID: 94849545 (Topic: Dividend and Distribution Income)

"Margaret received the following items during the year. Which of these amounts is considered taxable income to her?

A. $4,200 of child support.wrong
B. $28,500 direct rollover of IRA distributions.
C. $18,000 cash inheritance.
D. $13,000 of qualified dividends.correct

Study Unit 5: Investment Income and Expenses covers the information for this question.

This question is answered correctly on the first attempt by 91% of students.

Correct Answer Explanation for D:

Only the qualified dividends are taxable. Qualified dividends are a type of dividends that are eligible for taxation at preferential long-term capital gain rates. The IRA rollover would need to be reported on Margaret’s return, but it is not a taxable event.

10. Question ID: 94849495 (Topic: Dividend and Distribution Income)

"Arturo is a 10% shareholder of a family-owned C corporation that sells appliances. He is also an employee of the company and works as a full-time appliance salesman. The company pays Arturo the following:

Mortgage and property taxes for his personal home: $48,000
Company car to make sales calls: $12,000
Medical and dental benefits: $18,000
W-2 Wages: $50,000

During the year, the corporation goes under IRS audit, and several of the payments are disallowed by the auditor. How could this affect Arturo's personal tax return?

A. The IRS may reclassify the mortgage and property taxes, medical and dental benefits, and the wages as a constructive distribution.wrong
B. The IRS would likely reclassify the mortgage and property taxes as a constructive distribution. The reclassified distributions would be taxable to Arturo as a dividend, and not deductible by the C corporation.correct
C. It would not affect Arturo's personal income tax return, because a C corporation is not a pass-through entity. 
D. All the payments would be treated as taxable distributions to Arturo, but still fully deductible by the corporation.

Study Unit 5: Investment Income and Expenses covers the information for this question.

This question is answered correctly on the first attempt by 82% of students.

Correct Answer Explanation for B:

The IRS would likely reclassify the mortgage and property taxes as a constructive distribution, and these distributions would be taxable to Arturo as taxable dividends and not deductible by the corporation. Certain transactions between a corporation and its shareholders may be regarded as "constructive distributions" or "constructive dividends". This most often happens when a corporation goes under audit. The corporation as well as the shareholder are affected. 

They may be considered dividends or nondividend distributions, and may be taxable to the shareholders. Examples of constructive distributions include payment of personal expenses on behalf of an employee-shareholder. In this case, Arturo’s mortgage and property taxes for his home are clearly personal expenses. Some or all of the other payments could be legitimate nontaxable employee benefits.

11. Question ID: 94849610 (Topic: Dividend and Distribution Income)

"Dustin purchased stock five years ago for $3,000. During the tax year, he received a nondividend distribution of $550. How should this be reported?

A. Dustin must report the nondividend distribution as dividend income.wrong
B. Dustin must reduce the basis of his stock by $550.correct
C. Dustin must report the nondividend distribution as interest income.
D. Dustin must report the $550 as a long-term capital gain.

Study Unit 5: Investment Income and Expenses covers the information for this question.

This question is answered correctly on the first attempt by 71% of students.

Correct Answer Explanation for B:

Dustin must reduce his stock basis by $550. A nondividend distribution reduces the basis of a taxpayer’s stock. It is not taxed until the basis in the stock is fully recovered. This nontaxable portion is also called a return of capital; it is a return of the taxpayer’s investment in the stock of the company. When the basis of the stock has been reduced to zero, the taxpayer must report any additional nondividend distributions received as a capital gain.

2. Question ID: 94849768 (Topic: Dividend and Distribution Income)

"Terrence is a 20% shareholder of Willow Corporation, a C Corporation. The corporation makes the following payments to Terrence during the year. Which of the following would most likely be reclassified as a constructive dividend to Terrence?

A. A below-market loan made to Terrence by the corporationcorrect
B. Reimbursement of business mileage 
C. Salary paid to Terrence by the corporation
D. Retirement plan benefits offered to Terrence by the corporation 

Study Unit 5: Investment Income and Expenses covers the information for this question.

This question is answered correctly on the first attempt by 90% of students.

Correct Answer Explanation for A:

Loans to shareholders at "below-market" interest rates would be classified as a constructive dividend. A constructive dividend is a payment or a benefit given to a shareholder in a company that is not intended or classified as a distribution to the shareholder, but which is classified later as a dividend by the IRS and thus becomes taxable to the shareholder, and nondeductible to the corporation. Other examples of constructive dividends include:

Excessive compensation, including excessive rents paid to the shareholder
Use by shareholders of corporate property
Payment of personal expenses with corporate funds
Assumption of shareholder debt by the corporation

 

9. Question ID: 94849767 (Topic: Dividend and Distribution Income)

Which of the following would be most likely considered a constructive dividend to a shareholder?

A. A below-market loan to a shareholder.correct
B. Family and medical leave paid to a shareholder
C. Payment of health insurance for an employee-shareholder
D. Wages paid to an employee-shareholder

Study Unit 5: Investment Income and Expenses covers the information for this question.

This question is answered correctly on the first attempt by 86% of students.

Correct Answer Explanation for A:

A below-market loan to a shareholder would be considered a "constructive distribution" or a "constructive dividend". A corporation's payment of a shareholder's personal expenses may also be treated as a deemed distribution of a dividend, and taxable to the shareholder, while being non-deductible by the corporation.


