
1. Question ID: 94816020 (Topic: Marriage Divorce and Injured and Innocent Spouse)

"For tax purposes, which of the following persons may be considered an 'injured spouse', and qualify for injured spouse relief?A. Karen, who is recently widowed from her late husband Olaf, who claimed improper deductions on a prior-year return that is now under audit.B. Jazmine, who files separately from her husband, James. James owes past-due child support.C. Inga, who filed jointly with her husband Harold, and was subject to spousal abuse and then filed for innocent spouse relief.D. Larry, who is married to Jennifer and files jointly with her. Jennifer owes past-due student loans which are being offset.","D:Larry is an 'injured spouse' because he is married to Jennifer and files jointly with her. Jennifer owes past-due student loans. When a joint return is filed and only one spouse owes a past-due amount, the other spouse can be considered an 'injured spouse.' Form 8379 allows an injured spouse to request the division of the tax overpayment attributed to each spouse.None of the other examples would be classified as 'injured spouse'. Inga and Karen may qualify for 'innocent spouse' provisions, but not injured spouse. And Jazmine would not be an injured spouse, because she is not filing a joint return with her husband, so there is no way that her refund would be offset for his debt. Note: An 'injured spouse' is different from an 'innocent spouse'. These provisions only apply to joint return filings. A taxpayer that files MFS would not be an 'injured spouse.' An innocent spouse uses Form 8857, Request for Innocent Spouse Relief, to request relief from joint liability for tax, interest, and penalties on a joint return for items of the other spouse (or former spouse) that were incorrectly reported on the joint return."

2. Question ID: 94850122 (Topic: Estimated Taxes and Penalty Avoidance)

"How should an individual taxpayer calculate and pay their estimated taxes?A. An individual taxpayer should pay estimated taxes based on their expected income, as well as using their prior year return as a guide. The tax is calculated and submitted to the IRS on Form 1040-ES.B. An individual taxpayer should pay estimated taxes based on their expected income using Schedule C to calculate the tax.C. An individual taxpayer should pay estimated taxes along with their yearly return, by submitting the payment by check in the same envelope with the Form 1040.D. An individual taxpayer should pay estimated taxes based on their previous year's income. The tax is calculated and submitted to the IRS on Form 1040.","A:An individual taxpayer should pay estimated taxes based on their expected income, as well as using their prior year return as a guide. The tax is calculated and submitted to the IRS on Form 1040-ES. Form 1040-ES is used to calculate and pay estimated tax. Estimated tax is the method used to pay tax on income that is not subject to withholding (for example, earnings from self-employment, interest, dividends, rents, alimony, etc.). Most self-employed taxpayers are required to pay quarterly tax estimates throughout the year."

3. Question ID: 94851044 (Topic: Taxpayer Personal Information)

"What biographical information, at a minimum, is required on each individual taxpayer’s federal income tax return?A. Taxpayer name, taxpayer identification number, physical address, phone number, and email address.B. Taxpayer name, taxpayer identification number, physical address, and phone number.C. Taxpayer name, taxpayer identification number, and mailing address.D. Taxpayer name and taxpayer identification number.","C:An individual federal tax return requires a taxpayer’s name, taxpayer identification number, and current mailing address. A phone number and email address are not required."

5. Question ID: 94849869 (Topic: Estimated Taxes and Penalty Avoidance)

"Porter is single and works as a self-employed consultant. In recent years, he has earned an average of about $200,000 a year. His income fluctuates throughout the year, however, and he's never sure of how much he will earn. In order to avoid paying an estimated tax penalty, Porter can rely on the safe harbor rule for higher-income taxpayers by paying:A. 100% of the tax liability on his prior year tax return.B. 90% of the tax liability on his prior year tax return.C. 110% of the tax liability on his prior year tax return.D. $1,000 or more in total tax on his current year tax return.","C:A higher-income taxpayer with adjusted gross income of $150,000 or more ($75,000 or more if married filing separately) will not be assessed an estimated tax penalty if he pays the smaller of:90% of the tax liability on his current year return or110% of the tax liability on his prior-year tax return.This contrasts with a taxpayer earning under $150,000, who can rely on a safe harbor rule by paying the lesser of 90% of the tax liability on his current year return or 100% of the tax liability on his prior-year return. A taxpayer also will not face an underpayment penalty if the total tax shown on his return (minus the amounts of tax credits or paid through withholding) is less than $1,000."

10. Question ID: 94850106 (Topic: Taxpayer Filing Status)

"Which of the following is a correct description of 'joint and several' liability?A. The spouse with the higher income will be held legally responsible for any understatement of income or other penalties.B. Both spouses attest to the truthfulness and accuracy of the return, upon penalty of perjury.C. Either spouse can sign a joint return. It is not necessary for both spouses to do so.D. Each spouse is legally responsible for the entire liability of a tax return.","D:Filing a joint return offers certain tax benefits. However, it also means that each spouse is jointly and severally liable for the tax and any interest or penalties that arise as a result of the joint return. Each spouse is legally responsible for the entire liability related to a tax return, even in the case of a later divorce or if one spouse earned all the income or claimed improper deductions or credits. Taxpayers can apply for relief from joint and several liability. Three types of relief may be available: innocent spouse relief, separation of liability relief, and equitable relief."

11. Question ID: 94815991 (Topic: Taxpayer Filing Status)

"Mohr separated from his wife and he moved into a separate apartment on April 20, 2023. Mohr’s 10-year-old daughter, Anika, lived with him for the entire year in the apartment. Mohr still owns the home and pays all the costs of upkeep for it. He did not file for divorce in 2023, but plans to in 2024. His wife wants to file jointly with him, but he doesn't want to file with her. Which of the following statements is correct?A. Mohr is required to file jointly with his wife, since they are still legally married. They can claim their daughter as a dependent on their jointly filed return.B. Mohr qualifies for HOH filing status. He is not required to file jointly with his spouse.C. Mohr may file as single.D. Mohr must file as MFS or MFJ.","B:Mohr qualifies for Head of Household filing status. Since Mohr and his wife lived in separate residences for the last six months of the year and Mohr had a qualifying child, he is “considered unmarried” for tax purposes and can file as Head of Household. No one is ever 'forced' to file jointly with a spouse. A taxpayer may always choose to file a separate return."

13. Question ID: 94815935 (Topic: Residency Status and/or Citizenship)

"Which one of the following is NOT considered an exempt individual for the purposes of the Substantial Presence Test?A. A personal housekeeper of an international official.B. A professional athlete temporarily in the US to compete in a charitable sports event.C. An individual temporarily present in the US as a foreign government-related individual under an 'A' or 'G' visa.D. A teacher or trainee temporarily present in the US under a 'J' or 'Q' visa, who substantially complies with the requirements of the visa.","A:A personal housekeeper of an international official would NOT be considered an “exempt individual” for the purposes of the Substantial Presence Test. The term 'exempt individual' does not refer to someone exempt from US tax, but to anyone in the following categories:An individual temporarily present in the US as a foreign government-related individual under an 'A' or 'G' visa, other than individuals holding 'A-3' or 'G-5' class visas.A teacher or trainee temporarily present in the US under a J or Q visa, who substantially complies with the requirements of the visa.A student temporarily present in the US under an F, J, M, or Q visa, who substantially complies with the requirements of the visa.A professional athlete temporarily in the US to compete in a charitable sports event.To learn more about this topic, see the dedicated IRS page about the Substantial Presence Test."

20. Question ID: 94815942 (Topic: Residency Status and/or Citizenship)

"Bolin is a citizen of China. He entered the US for the first time as a legal resident alien on February 1st, with a valid green card. Bolin is considered a dual-status alien for this tax year. How is his income taxed?A. For the part of the year Bolin is a resident alien, he is taxed on his worldwide income.B. For the part of the year Bolin is a resident alien, he is taxed only on his US-source income.C. Bolin will be taxed on all his foreign-source income for the entire calendar year.D. Bolin will not be taxed on any of his income until he is legally within the US for at least one year.","A:For the part of the year Bolin is a resident alien, he is taxed on his worldwide income. You are a dual-status alien when you have been both a US resident alien and a nonresident alien in the same tax year. For more on this topic, see the dedicated IRS page about the taxation of dual-status aliens."

22. Question ID: 94815923 (Topic: Qualifications for Dependency)

"Randall is 65 years old and lives with his son and daughter-in-law. Randall is retired, and his taxable pension income for the year was $12,000. Randall doesn't plan to file a tax return. Can Randall's son and daughter-in-law claim him as a dependent?A. No.Randall's son and daughter-in-law cannot claim him as a dependent because his income exceeds the threshold amount.B. Yes.Randall's son and daughter-in-law can claim him as a dependent as long as Randall doesn't file his own return.C. Yes. Randall's son and daughter-in-law can claim him as a dependent.D. None of the answers are correct. ","A:Randall's son and daughter-in-law cannot claim him as a dependent because his taxable income exceeds the threshold amount for a qualifying relative, which is $4,700 in 2023 (question based on a VITA tax training question)."

4. Question ID: 94850137 (Topic: Filing Requirements and Due Date)

"Every taxpayer that signs a US tax return signs their return under __.A. Penalty of nullityB. Penalty of forfeitureC. Penalty of perjuryD. Penalty of liability","C:Every taxpayer that signs a US tax return signs the return under penalty of perjury. Every tax return must be signed (either electronically or with a handwritten signature). The signature on a tax return certifies (under penalty of perjury) that all of the statements in the tax return are true, correct, and complete to the best of the taxpayer's knowledge."

6. Question ID: 94851458 (Topic: Marriage Divorce and Injured and Innocent Spouse)

"All of the following are types of spousal relief from joint and several liability except:A. Separation of liability relief.B. Innocent spouse relief.C. Equivalent relief.D. Equitable relief.","C:“Equivalent” relief does not exist. There are three types of relief from joint and several liability: innocent spouse, separation of liability, and equitable relief."

7. Question ID: 95850115 (Topic: Special Filing Requirements)

"Which of the following is true, regarding the filing requirements for individual taxpayers?A. All US citizens who are living and working overseas must file a tax return.B. If an individual is eligible for a tax refund, they are always required to file a tax return.C. Even if an individual is not legally obligated to file a tax return, it is still advisable to do so if they are eligible for a tax refund.D. Filing a tax return is required once you have a job.","C:Not everyone is required to file a tax return. However, even if an individual is not legally obligated to file a tax return, it is still advisable to do so if they are eligible for a tax refund. Filing a tax return is recommended if taxes were withheld from their income, or had overpayments from the previous year that would result in a refund, or if they qualify for any refundable tax credits, such as the Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC)."

8. Question ID: 95092386 (Topic: Residency Status and/or Citizenship)

"Gerry is a US Citizen that lives and works in France. He has been physically present in France for the entire year. He works for a French company and is paid a $50,000 salary in Euros. He only has foreign-source income and no US source income. How must he report his income on his tax return?A. He does not have a filing requirement.B. He must report the income as Euros.C. He must report the foreign currency on Form 1040NR.D. He must translate the foreign currency into US dollars and file Form 1040.","D:Gerry is a US citizen and he is required to file a return. In order to report his foreign earnings, he must translate the foreign currency into US dollars and file Form 1040. US Citizens never report their income on Form 1040NR, that form is for nonresident aliens only. A taxpayer must express the amounts they earn on their US tax return in US dollars. Likewise, if a US taxpayer receives all or part of their income in foreign currency, they must translate the foreign currency into US dollars."

9. Question ID: 94815920 (Topic: Qualifications for Dependency)

"In the case of a multiple support agreement, a taxpayer must provide more than ________ of support to claim a dependent.A. More than 50%B. 50%C. At least 80%D. 10%","D:In a situation involving a multiple support agreement, a taxpayer must have paid more than 10% of the support for a family member in order to claim the qualifying relative as a dependent. The taxpayer would not be entitled to the exemption if someone else provided more than 50% of the support for this family member. A multiple support agreement is reported to the IRS on Form 2120, Multiple Support Declaration."

12. Question ID: 94815904 (Topic: Qualifications for Dependency)

"Jayce, age eight, made $105,000 during the year for an acting role that he played in a blockbuster movie. His parents put all the money he earned in a trust fund. His parents have a joint AGI of $81,000. Jayce lived at home all year with his parents. Does he meet the support test in order for his parents to claim him as a dependent?A. No, he does not meet the support test, because he provided more than 50% of his own support. His parents cannot claim him as a dependent.B. Since Jayce made the most money in the household, he can legally file his own tax return as single and claim his parents as dependents.C. His income can be added to his parents’ return because he is a minor child.D. Yes, he meets the support test, and his parents can claim him as a dependent.","D:Jayce meets the support test because he did not provide half of his own support. The support test only determines the level of support by the child, not the person who wants to claim the child as a dependent. In Jayce's case, the money he earned as an actor was never actually used for his support, it was put into a trust fund by his parents. A person’s own funds are not counted as support unless they are actually spent for support."

14. Question ID: 94851265 (Topic: Filing Requirements and Due Date)

"Theadora applies for an automatic six-month extension using Form 4868. She knows that she will owe taxes this year, so she wants to file on the last possible day. When will a penalty for 'failure to pay' begin to accrue?A. Never.B. The penalties begin to accrue immediately upon filing the extension.C. As soon as the EXTENDED filing deadline has passed on October 15.D. As soon as the filing deadline has passed on April 15.","D:Theadora has until April 15 to file her return and pay the tax owed. An extension to file an individual income tax return isn’t an extension to pay the amount of tax due on the return. If a taxpayer applies for the automatic six-month extension using Form 4868, a penalty for failure to pay the amount owed will begin to accrue as soon as the filing deadline has passed on April 15."

15. Question ID: 94815989 (Topic: Special Filing Requirements)

"Filing Form 4868 will provide an individual taxpayer with the following:

A. An automatic extension of six months to file a tax return.
B. An automatic extension to pay estimated taxes due.
C. An automatic extension of five months to file a tax return.
D. An automatic extension of six months to pay taxes due.



A:

Form 4868 will give a taxpayer an additional six months to file his or her tax return. It does not give the taxpayer an additional six months to pay any taxes due. See the dedicated IRS page on extensions here: Extension of Time To File Your Tax Return."

16. Question ID: 94816001 (Topic: Taxpayer Filing Status)

"Andrei and Trina were married, but on March 30, 2021, Andrei died. Edward is Trina's disabled adult son. Edward is 27 and has Downs’s syndrome. Edward cannot live on his own and is considered completely disabled. Trina continues to financially support Edward, her disabled son. Trina has no other dependents and does not remarry. What is Trina's most beneficial filing status for 2023?

A. Single.
B. Qualifying surviving spouse (QSS)
C. Head of Household.
D. Married Filing Jointly.



B:

Trina can file as a Qualifying surviving spouse (QSS) for up to TWO YEARS following the year of the death of her spouse, because her disabled son is a qualifying dependent for the purposes of this filing status. The year of death is the last year for which a taxpayer can file jointly with their deceased spouse. See Publication 501, Exemptions, Standard Deduction, and Filing Information for more information on this filing status."

17. Question ID: 95850111 (Topic: Use of Prior Returns)

"If a tax professional discovers an error on a client's prior-year return, and the client wants to correct the error, what steps should the preparer take next?

A. It would be best to report the error to the IRS anonymously.
B. The preparer should file an amended return to correct the mistake.
C. The preparer should advise the client they can avoid audit risk by not amending their return.
D. The preparer should ignore the error and focus on the current year's return.



B:

Filing an amended return to correct the mistake is the best way to correct errors found on prior-year returns."

18. Question ID: 94815983 (Topic: Filing Requirements and Due Date)

"For most self-employed taxpayers, when is their FIRST estimated tax payment due?

A. April 15
B. April 1
C. March 15
D. January 1



A:

A self-employed taxpayer's first estimated payment is generally due April 15. Estimated tax payments for individuals are due as follows:

January 1 to March 31 payment is due April 15.
April 1 to May 31 payment is due June 15.
June 1 to August 31 payment is due September 15.
September 1 to December 31 payment is due January 15 of the following year.

Note: There are special exceptions to the estimated tax due dates for Farmers and Fishermen. See the dedicated IRS page for estimated taxes for more information."

19. Question ID: 94815957 (Topic: Taxpayer Filing Status)

"When is a taxpayer's marital status determined?

A. Marital status for tax purposes is determined based on the taxpayer's filing status in the prior year.
B. Marital status for tax purposes is determined based on the due date of the return.
C. Marital status for tax purposes is determined based on the first day of the year.
D. Marital status for tax purposes is determined based on the last day of the year.



D:

A taxpayer's marital status for tax purposes is determined based on the last day of the year—December 31."

21. Question ID: 94850112 (Topic: Marriage Divorce and Injured and Innocent Spouse)

"Ramon and Meredith are married and file jointly. Their joint tax refund was seized because of Meredith's past-due student loan debt. In this scenario, Ramon is considered a: ______________.

A. Wounded Spouse.
B. Qualified Spouse.
C. Innocent Spouse.
D. Injured Spouse.



D:

Sometimes, a married couple's joint tax refund will be seized because of a debt for which only one spouse is responsible. In this scenario, Ramon is considered an 'injured spouse' (not innocent spouse, which is different). Ramon may file Form 8379 to request his portion of the refund. To learn more about Injured Spouse Relief, see the IRS FAQ page."

23. Question ID: 94815880 (Topic: Residency Status and/or Citizenship)

"How does the IRS define a US resident, for tax purposes?

A. US residents are taxpayers who meet either the green card test or the substantial presence test.
B. US residents are persons who are not US citizens or lawful permanent residents of the US.
C. US residents are persons who are lawful permanent residents of another country, other than the US.
D. US residents are persons who are lawful permanent residents of a US territory, such as Guam or the US Virgin Islands.



A:

All noncitizens of the US are considered 'aliens'.  For tax purposes, a US citizen is always treated as a US resident and will always file Form 1040, regardless of where they reside. Aliens that are classified as US residents are taxpayers who meet either the green card test or the substantial presence test. Note that the determination of residency status for federal income tax purposes may be different from the residency status determined for immigration purposes."

24. Question ID: 94816022 (Topic: Qualifications for Dependency)

"Kyle and Joanne are the sole support of all the following individuals, all US citizens, none of whom lives with them: None of these individuals file a joint return or have any taxable income. How many dependent parents can they claim on their joint tax return?

Andie, who is Kyle's 65-year old mother
Julie, who is Joanne's 80-year old step-mother
Gary, father of Kyle's deceased first wife, who died 5 years ago

A. 2 dependent parents
B. 1 dependent parent
C. 3 dependent parents
D. None of them can be claimed as dependents, because they do not live with Kyle and Joanne.



C:

Kyle and Joanne can claim all three as dependent parents. Unlike dependent children, dependent parents do not have to live with the taxpayer at least half of the year to be claimed as dependents. They can qualify no matter where they live, as long as they meet the residency requirements (they must be US citizens, US residents, or residents or citizens of Canada or Mexico).

25. Question ID: 94815951 (Topic: Taxpayer Personal Information)

"Generally, every taxpayer who files a tax return must use an identifying number. Which of the following is NOT a taxpayer identification number for IRS purposes?

A. Social Security number (SSN).
B. Preparer tax identification number (PTIN).
C. Adoption taxpayer identification number (ATIN).
D. Individual tax identification number (ITIN).



B:

A preparer tax identification number (PTIN) is used by paid preparers to identify themselves on a taxpayer’s return. It is not an identifying number for a taxpayer’s use."
